everybody is Dave with david's passage
calm and today thought he'd come to you
with another one armed video again I'm
just out here practicing some of these
skills myself to be honest with you I
don't claim to be an expert I do want to
show you today one way that you can make
a one-armed fire I'm not gonna build a
huge fire today just because I don't
have the time to babysit it it's mostly
in the technique anyways so I think by
the end of the video you'll get the gist
of it if you didn't get a chance to see
I also made a one-armed shelter video
how to build a survival shelter with one
arm just in case you have an emergency
in your dominant arm is impaired and you
can watch the video I'll put a link in
the description for those of you that
are just tuning in to this channel the
reason why I'm kind of out here doing
this today a few weeks ago I was injured
pretty badly by some broken glass I got
cut pretty bad had to stay in the
hospital overnight head have surgery and
it got me thinking me I'm what if that
had happened to me out in the woods you
know enough end of some basic I've been
through some basic survival training at
the Pathfinder school and this is just
one of the things that we sort of honed
it on our skills and its really good to
just practice this stuff you know when
you get out and so that's kind of what
I'm doing really and just thought I'd
take you along for the ride to do this
you're really just going to need a few
things first of all you're going to need
you know your knife your knife should
have a 90 degree spine on it you one
other thing I'd like to carry whenever a
mountain about especially on multi day
hikes is just a little container full of
Vaseline soaked cotton balls I'm i did a
video on this I'll put that link in the
description too and really the reason
why I prefer these over some of the
other you know fire-starting methods is
i can easily tear one of these apart and
set it up so that it'll take a spark
some of the other products that I've
tried you know you have to you almost
have to have both hands unless you want
to stick it in your mouth and rip it
apart but a lot of them have chemicals
and stuff that are not really good for
you soaked into them these are just a
little bit easier to tear apart and
throw a spark to another thing you're
going to need is I'm just using a
pharisee mehran to do this obviously if
you had a lighter this would be a lot
easier and i always carry that i always
always always have a lighter
me but I always also have a Pharisee
mourad and the reason why is because
lighters get wet and then they don't
work these you can throw in a river pull
them back out on the work just fine
you're going to see me do this
one-handed here but there's really just
a simple technique i'm just taking this
cotton ball out again i'm not making a
big fire because i don't have time to
babysit if big fire where I'm at and
really this is just for me to practice
this skill and just make sure I own it
so I'm just getting out one of my little
cotton soaked Vaseline balls and I've
already picked up some smaller material
and I've got a couple of you know larger
sticks you're actually only need one
larger stick to make this work so I'm
going to set my fire up I got some dry
material here I'm just going to take
this cotton ball you know maybe I want
to rough it up a little bit just to
expose some of those inner fibers it's
all good i'm going to put it right next
to this log here i'm going to do is I'm
going to take my knife put it so that
the spine is on this side of the cotton
ball I'm going to take my fair cm rod
and strike it this way I'll try to get
you a better shot if this happening
alright so now I got my knife set up it
is when you pull this you want to get
enough pressure on your on your shoe
here order to keep this real nice and
firm and you want those sparks to land
have to put that right there in that
cotton ball just like that that's gone
my knife away and materials
well that's how you start a fire with
one hand and appreciate you guys
watching this video you know I'm not an
expert in this by any means but that's
just one way that I've learned how to do
it and so I just thought I'd pass that
along and it's good for me to come out
and practice this anyways just to keep
some of those skills sharp for when I'm
on the trail so thank you guys so much
for watching this video if you liked
this video I'd appreciate it if you'd
like it and share it and I'd love to
connect you guys on Facebook Twitter but
anyways thank you guys so much for
watching and we'll see you in the next
video take care